you're Ben Bernanke at the Federal
Reserve because according to him there's
no inflation now you know he's going to
be speaking in front of Congress I think
today may be already did in tomorrow
he's giving a press conference on
Wednesday that'll be very interesting
hopefully somebody will ask him some
difficult questions and follow-up but I
doubt it now I also wanted to touch upon
one of the subject on this video blog
and that was the story came out today by
the IMF and where the IMF is now saying
that the China will surpass the US
economy to be the world's largest
economy by 2016 that's in five years and
that's much sooner than the traditional
or the conventional wisdom has been by
other experts now I wrote an article a
couple years ago in which I argued that
before the end of this decade China
would overtake the US as the world's
largest economy and now the IMF is
pretty much coming to that same
conclusion and for the same reason you
see what other nations or what other
economists fail to look at or fail to
factor in is exchange rates they've
assumed that the R&B and the dollar will
stay at the same rate that they are
today well I believe that sometime over
the next several years you will see a
substantial revaluation of the Chinese
R&B where the Chinese currency will rise
sharply and when that happens that
changes the way you measure GDP if the
Chinese currency doubles in value
against the dollar then China's GDP
doubles against the US gdp so when you
factor in likely exchange rate
appreciation the IMF may well be correct
in that China surpasses the u.s. even by
2016 which is even quicker than I
thought I thought you know by the end of
the decade but certainly 2016 would meet
that time frame but one thing that I
disagree with and you can read this
article on the internet from the IMF is
one of the reasons that the IMF seems to
be attributing to China's success is
that America has this more free market
economy and China has a more controlled
command economy and because Chinese
bureaucrats are making all the right
decisions that their engineering a
stronger economy and since America we
have free trade and lays a faire
capitalism
that's why we're falling behind now this
is pure propaganda man I've said this
many times that America gives capitalism
a bad name in China gives communism a
good name because they're not China is
not Connie this and America is not
capitalist the truth of the matter is
the Chinese economy looks more like the
American economy then from 100 years ago
then the American economy does today yes
China is not a democracy they can't vote
there are certain political freedoms
that they don't enjoy but from an
economic perspective there is less
interference and less control in the
Chinese economy than there is in the
American economy we don't have a free
market we have anything but a free
market we have the US government
distorting every decision that we make
there are all sorts of rules and
subsidies and taxes that inhibit the
free market from functioning and cause
acts assets and labor and capital to be
allocated the way the government wants
them to and in addition we have all
sorts of foolish policies that are
perpetuated by politicians trying to get
reelected so we do a lot of things in
this country that are bad economics but
are good politics and that is part of
the problem that you might want to say
hey that's one of the benefits of China
is since they don't have to worry about
constantly getting reelected they can do
what's right and not what's a
politically expedient but the bottom
line is we are losing to China because
we are not free because we don't have a
capitalist economy if we did then this
wouldn't be the case and of course we
also have a government money we don't
have sound money anymore we have fiat
money we have interest rates that are
much too low that have been distorting
distorting decisions as well as
government rules of regulation so we
have anything but a free market economy
and it's because of all the government
interference in our economy that's why
we're losing ground and the reason that
that shot China is gaining is because
they have less I'm not saying China is
perfect far from it they have too much
government in China it's just that they
have less than we do remember when the
old Soviet Union what a real communist
country was around there was no economic
growth in the old Soviet Union if they
could he feet they were starving we had
to give them grain credits that's
because they were a common his country
in every sense the word that's not the
case in China and let's not try to
pretend
that if we simply had more government
and more control that that's that that's
the way to succeed no the opposite we
need to dismantle all the government
that we have we need to go back to the
type of economy we had a hundred years
ago when we had for your markets when
resources were allocated based on a
competitive market based on a profit
motive not based on political whim they
investments were in made because there
was that there was a subsidy because
there was a government guarantee because
towards a tax deduction and Americans
were involved in productive employment
we weren't this phony service sector
economy where everybody simply a
borrowed and spent money we saved money
because we had sound money because we
didn't have a tax code that punish
people for spending and we didn't have
this gigantic social welfare state
remember we didn't have a Social
Security we didn't have a Medicare
Medicaid and all these government
programs that we think are so great
China doesn't have any of these programs
and that's why China is succeeding it's
not because they have too much
government but because they have less
than the United States anyway that's it
for today I'm going to be talking about
this tonight on CNN so maybe you get a
chance on the eliot spitzer show up you
see this in time you can watch that on
CNN anyway take care now everybody
bye-bye